# Build project:

    make all

# Run project:

    ./bin/seq
    ./bin/gen 10 3

# Algorithm description:

In the mathematical problem of reconstructing a random string from its spectrum,
the only way to estimate the quality of a proposed reconstruction is by comparing
the spectrum associated with this reconstruction with the spectrum generated by the
hybridization experiment given at the algorithm's input.

This project is an exploration of a more straightforward genetic algorithm
approach which does not require building Pevzner graph and finding Euler path.

*Genetic operator should actually transform the spectrum associated with individuals
rather than the individuals themselves.*

Possible error types in sequencing by hybridization experiment
- repetitions
- negative errors: oligonucleotide which occurs in dna is missing from the spectrum
- positive errors: spectrum contains some oligonucleotides which do not occur in the dna


## Fitness function:

In the absence of full information neccessary to measure the similarity of generated
sequences carefully designed fitness heuristic is essential in order to steer the evolution
into the right direction. This function will have a general form of:

  fitness(sequence, referenceSpectrum) --> number

and greater values of this function will mean that the spectrum of the estimated sequence
more closely resembles the reference spectrum.

Considering purely mathematical problem of reconstructiong a random string from its spectrum
any string wich generates the same spectrum is as good as the input string. So the simplest
version of a fitness estimation would be a function in the form of:

The implementation of this fitness function would consist of two main steps:
* Generate perfect spectrum of the input sequence
* Compute the similarity of the two spectrums using some kind of a similarity measure between two set

??? Is there any useful information in the values of the elements in the spectrum?

## Crossover operator:

Having single individual dna sequence represented directly as a string of nucleotides makes desiging
genetic operators very straightforward. We can however still experiment with different apporaches.
Basic scenario would involve appending i-th gene from randomly selected parent to the child's genotype.
Assuming that each of the parents' genotypes contain some desired pieces of the solution those pieces
will unlikely have a lenght of 1. If we performed random selection for every single nucleotide we would
very likely break up this valuable piece and it would not be included in the child's genotype. It could
be beneficial to copy the substrings of some length greater than one. The question is how should we select
this length. Should we make it random in some range, constant, etc. I will try to explore at least the
constant length in few variations.



## Mutation operator:

If mutation operator was defined simply as an exchange of a single nucleotide for a randomly selected one,
the impact of mutation on the quality of the solution represented by mutated individual would be very small.
This would impact the levensthein distance of this individual from the reference dna sequence by +/-1.




## Selection to the next population:
...

## Selection for crossover:
...


# Testing description:

...

# Results:

...

# Conclusion:

...


